
<!---
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
# or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
# distributed with this work for additional information
# regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
# to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
# "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
# with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
-->
# Apache HBase  1.2.7 Release Notes

These release notes cover new developer and user-facing incompatibilities, important issues, features, and major improvements.


---

* [HBASE-18122](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-18122) | *Major* | **Scanner id should include ServerName of region server**

The scanner id is not from 1 anymore.
The first 32 bits are MurmurHash32 of ServerName string "host,port,ts". The ServerName contains both host, port, and start timestamp so it can prevent collision. The lowest 32bit is generated by atomic int.


---

* [HBASE-9393](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-9393) | *Critical* | **Hbase does not closing a closed socket resulting in many CLOSE\_WAIT**

To handle this issue client need to have Hadoop client 2.6.4 or 2.7.0+ Hadoop version as CanUnBuffer interface which was added as part of HDFS-7694 is available in only those versions.


---

* [HBASE-18192](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-18192) | *Blocker* | **Replication drops recovered queues on region server shutdown**

If a region server that is processing recovered queue for another previously dead region server is gracefully shut down, it can drop the recovered queue under certain conditions. Running without this fix on a 1.2+ release means possibility of continuing data loss in replication, irrespective of which WALProvider is used.
If a single WAL group (or DefaultWALProvider) is used, running without this fix will always cause dataloss in replication whenever a region server processing recovered queues is gracefully shutdown.


---

* [HBASE-18137](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-18137) | *Critical* | **Replication gets stuck for empty WALs**

0-length WAL files can potentially cause the replication queue to get stuck.  A new config "replication.source.eof.autorecovery" has been added: if set to true (default is false), the 0-length WAL file will be skipped after 1) the max number of retries has been hit, and 2) there are more WAL files in the queue.  The risk of enabling this is that there is a chance the 0-length WAL file actually has some data (e.g. block went missing and will come back once a datanode is recovered).



