
<!---
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
# or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
# distributed with this work for additional information
# regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
# to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
# "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
# with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
-->
# Apache HBase  0.98.19 Release Notes

These release notes cover new developer and user-facing incompatibilities, important issues, features, and major improvements.


---

* [HBASE-15479](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15479) | *Major* | **No more garbage or beware of autoboxing**

This fix decreases client's memory allocation during writes by more than 50%.


---

* [HBASE-15412](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15412) | *Major* | **Add average region size metric**

Adds a new metric for called "averageRegionSize" that is emitted as a regionserver metric. Metric description: 
Average region size over the region server including memstore and storefile sizes


---

* [HBASE-15212](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15212) | *Major* | **RRCServer should enforce max request size**

Adds a configuration parameter "hbase.ipc.max.request.size" which defaults to 256MB to protect the server against very large incoming RPC requests. All requests larger than this size will be immediately rejected before allocating any resources (memory allocation, etc).


---

* [HBASE-15400](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15400) | *Major* | **Use DateTieredCompactor for Date Tiered Compaction**

With this patch combined with HBASE-15389, when we compact, we can output multiple files along the current window boundaries. There are two use cases:
1. Major compaction: We want to output date tiered store files with data older than max age archived in trunks of the window size on the higher tier. Once a window is old enough, we don't combine the windows to promote to the next tier any further. So files in these windows retain the same timespan as they were minor-compacted last time, which is the window size of the highest tier. Major compaction will touch these files and we want to maintain the same layout. This way, TTL and archiving will be simpler and more efficient.
2. Bulk load files and the old file generated by major compaction before upgrading to DTCP.

This will change the way to enable date tiered compaction.
To turn it on: 
hbase.hstore.engine.class: org.apache.hadoop.hbase.regionserver.DateTieredStoreEngine

With tiered compaction all servers in the cluster will promote windows to higher tier at the same time, so using a compaction throttle is recommended: 
hbase.regionserver.throughput.controller:org.apache.hadoop.hbase.regionserver.compactions.PressureAwareCompactionThroughputController 
hbase.hstore.compaction.throughput.higher.bound and hbase.hstore.compaction.throughput.lower.bound need to be set for desired throughput range as uncompressed rates.

Because there will most likely be more store files around, we need to adjust the configuration so that flush won't be blocked and compaction will be properly throttled: 
hbase.hstore.blockingStoreFiles: change to 50 if using all default parameters when turning on date tiered compaction. Use 1.5~2 x projected file count if changing the parameters, Projected file count = windows per tier x tier count + incoming window min + files older than max age 

Because major compaction is turned on now, we also need to adjust the configuration for max file to compact according to the larger file count:
hbase.hstore.compaction.max: set to the same number as hbase.hstore.blockingStoreFiles.

For more details, please refer to the design spec at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1\_AmlNb2N8Us1xICsTeGDLKIqL6T-oHoRLZ323MG\_uy8/edit#


---

* [HBASE-15647](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15647) | *Major* | **Backport HBASE-15507 to 0.98**

Added update\_peer\_config to the HBase shell and ReplicationAdmin, and provided a callback for custom replication endpoints to be notified of changes to their configuration and peer data


---

* [HBASE-15386](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15386) | *Major* | **PREFETCH\_BLOCKS\_ON\_OPEN in HColumnDescriptor is ignored**

This was a non-issue. The PREFETCH\_... flag actually works. While here though made the following additions.

Changes the prefetch TRACE-level loggings to include the word 'Prefetch' in them so you know what they are about.

Changes the cryptic logging of the CacheConfig#toString to have some preamble saying why and what column family is responsible (helps figure what is going on)

Add test that verifies setting flag on HColumnDescriptor actually works.


---

* [HBASE-15640](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15640) | *Major* | **L1 cache doesn't give fair warning that it is showing partial stats only when it hits limit**

The blockcache UI tab would stop refreshing at 100k blocks (configurable, see "hbase.ui.blockcache.by.file.max"), which isn't very many blocks when doing a big cache, giving a misleading picture of the content of L1 and/or L2 cache. Up the default limit to 1M blocks (UI takes a while but just a few seconds counting over 1M blocks).

Also, when beyond the limit give the user a noticeable WARNING in the UI.


---

* [HBASE-15368](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15368) | *Major* | **Add pluggable window support**

Use 'hbase.hstore.compaction.date.tiered.window.factory.class' to specify the window implementation you like for date tiered compaction. Now the only and default implementation is org.apache.hadoop.hbase.regionserver.compactions.ExponentialCompactionWindowFactory.

{code} 
\<property\> 
\<name\>hbase.hstore.compaction.date.tiered.window.factory.class\</name\> 
\<value\>org.apache.hadoop.hbase.regionserver.compactions.ExponentialCompactionWindowFactory\</value\> 
\</property\> 
\<property\> 
{code}



